dev/README.md, before:

# Charts dev setup

Intended as a local environment to test changes to the charts. Not as a dev backend for the mobile app.
Currently successfully brings up charts - no guarantee that everything is working as in prod, but enough to do some refactorings or stuff like that.

## Dependencies

### Docker
* choose the install method for your system https://docs.docker.com/desktop/

### Nix package manager
* recommended install method using https://github.com/DeterminateSystems/nix-installer
  ```
  curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf -L https://install.determinate.systems/nix | sh -s -- install
  ```

### direnv >= 2.30.0
* recommended install method from https://direnv.net/docs/installation.html:
  ```
  curl -sfL https://direnv.net/install.sh | bash
  echo "eval \"\$(direnv hook bash)\"" >> ~/.bashrc
  source ~/.bashrc
  ```

## Regtest
* run in the `dev` folder:
  ```
  direnv allow
  make create-cluster
  tilt up
  ```

### Test

#### Forward the ingress nginx controller port:
* Run and keep open:
  ```
  kubectl -n galoy-dev-ingress port-forward --address 0.0.0.0 svc/ingress-nginx-controller 4002:80
  ```
#### Test the galoy-api

1. get session token
    ```
    curl -ksS 'https://localhost:8080/graphql' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H 'Accept: application/json' --data-binary '{"query":"mutation login($input: UserLoginInput!) { userLogin(input: $input) { authToken } }","variables":{"input":{"phone":"+59981730222","code":"111111"}}}' | jq '.data.userLogin.authToken'
    ```

    Example result:
    ```
    "BxTc70FW7gL5MEueAFcxGE08nbWWsytE"
    ```
2. query an authenticated endpoint (fill out the `session_token` from above)
    ```
    session_token="BxTc70FW7gL5MEueAFcxGE08nbWWsytE"
    curl -k 'http://localhost:4002/graphql' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H 'Accept: application/json' -H "Authorization: bearer ${session_token}" --data-binary '{"query": "{ me { phone } }" }'
    ```
    Expected result:
    ```
    {"data":{"me":{"phone":"+16505554321"}}}
    ```
#### Test the graphql-admin api

1. get session token
    ```
    curl -ksS 'http://localhost:4002/admin/graphql' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H 'Accept: application/json' --data-binary '{"query":"mutation login($input: UserLoginInput!) { userLogin(input: $input) { authToken } }","variables":{"input":{"phone":"+16505554321","code":"000000"}}}' | jq '.data.userLogin.authToken'
    ```

    Example result:
    ```
    "Beo2lGQZO4nZKzIyZRlVFIQ6jAeo9bNu"
    ```

#### Test the admin panel

1. port forward the web wallet on 3001
    ```
    kubectl -n galoy-dev-addons port-forward  --address 0.0.0.0 svc/admin-panel 3001:3000
    ```
2. open http://localhost:3001

## Grafana access
-
  ```
  env=galoy-dev

  the user is: `admin` (https://github.com/bitnami/charts/blob/main/bitnami/grafana/values.yaml#L76)

  # get the password
  k -n ${env}-monitoring get secrets monitoring-grafana -o jsonpath='{.data.admin-password}' | base64 -d; echo

  # forward the port from the pod
  k -n ${env}-monitoring port-forward svc/monitoring-grafana 3000:80

  # access Grafana on http://localhost:3000
  ```

## Port access from a remote computer
-
  ```
  # port forward with ssh
  localport=3000      # chosen port on the desktop with the web browser
  user=k3d            # remote user (example)
  host=192.168.3.170  # the IP address of the server (example)

  ssh -L $localport:127.0.0.1:3000 $user@$host

  # access the service on http://localhost:$localport
  ```

## Smoketests
### run the automated run-galoy-smoketest used in github actions
  ```
  make run-galoy-smoketest
  ```
### to test manually:

* forward the galoy-oathkeeper-proxy
  ```
  kubectl -n galoy-dev-galoy port-forward  svc/galoy-oathkeeper-proxy 4455:4455
  ```
* run the smoketest from another window (examples from the [galoy-smoketest.sh](/ci/tasks/galoy-smoketest.sh)):
  ```
  host=localhost
  port=4455
  phone='+59981730222'
  code='111111'

  # apollo-playground-ui
  curl -LksSf "${host}:${port}/graphql" \
    -H 'Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -H 'Accept: application/json' -H 'Connection: keep-alive' -H 'DNT: 1' \
    -H 'Origin: ${host}:${port}' --data-binary \
    '{"query":"query btcPrice {\n btcPrice {\n base\n currencyUnit\n formattedAmount\n offset\n }\n }","variables":{}}'

  # galoy-backend auth
  curl -LksSf "${host}:${port}/graphql" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -H 'Accept: application/json' --data-binary \
    "{\"query\":\"mutation login(\$input: UserLoginInput\!) { userLogin(input: \$input) { authToken } }\",\"variables\":{\"input\":{\"phone\":\"${phone}\",\"code\":\"${code}\"}}}"
  # admin-backend
  curl -LksSf  "${host}:${port}/admin/graphql" \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -H 'Accept: application/json' --data-binary \
    "{\"query\":\"mutation login(\$input: UserLoginInput\!) { userLogin(input: \$input) { authToken } }\",\"variables\":{\"input\":{\"phone\":\"${phone}\",\"code\":\"${code}\"}}}" \
  ```

Commit message:

chore: add to local dev tilt setup

dev/README.md, after:

# Charts dev setup

Intended as a local environment to test changes to the charts. Not as a dev backend for the mobile app.
Currently successfully brings up charts - no guarantee that everything is working as in prod, but enough to do some refactorings or stuff like that.

## Dependencies

### Docker
* choose the install method for your system https://docs.docker.com/desktop/

### Nix package manager
* recommended install method using https://github.com/DeterminateSystems/nix-installer
  ```
  curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf -L https://install.determinate.systems/nix | sh -s -- install
  ```

### direnv >= 2.30.0
* recommended install method from https://direnv.net/docs/installation.html:
  ```
  curl -sfL https://direnv.net/install.sh | bash
  echo "eval \"\$(direnv hook bash)\"" >> ~/.bashrc
  source ~/.bashrc
  ```

## Regtest
* run in the `dev` folder:
  ```
  direnv allow
  make create-cluster
  tilt up
  ```

### Test

#### Forward the ingress nginx controller port:
* Run and keep open:
  ```
  kubectl -n galoy-dev-ingress port-forward --address 0.0.0.0 svc/ingress-nginx-controller 4002:80
  ```
#### Test the galoy-api

1. get session token
    ```
    curl -ksS 'https://localhost:8080/graphql' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H 'Accept: application/json' --data-binary '{"query":"mutation login($input: UserLoginInput!) { userLogin(input: $input) { authToken } }","variables":{"input":{"phone":"+59981730222","code":"111111"}}}' | jq '.data.userLogin.authToken'
    ```

    Example result:
    ```
    "BxTc70FW7gL5MEueAFcxGE08nbWWsytE"
    ```
2. query an authenticated endpoint (fill out the `session_token` from above)
    ```
    session_token="BxTc70FW7gL5MEueAFcxGE08nbWWsytE"
    curl -k 'http://localhost:4002/graphql' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H 'Accept: application/json' -H "Authorization: bearer ${session_token}" --data-binary '{"query": "{ me { phone } }" }'
    ```
    Expected result:
    ```
    {"data":{"me":{"phone":"+16505554321"}}}
    ```
#### Test the graphql-admin api

1. get session token
    ```
    curl -ksS 'http://localhost:4002/admin/graphql' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H 'Accept: application/json' --data-binary '{"query":"mutation login($input: UserLoginInput!) { userLogin(input: $input) { authToken } }","variables":{"input":{"phone":"+16505554321","code":"000000"}}}' | jq '.data.userLogin.authToken'
    ```

    Example result:
    ```
    "Beo2lGQZO4nZKzIyZRlVFIQ6jAeo9bNu"
    ```

#### Test the admin panel

1. port forward the web wallet on 3001
    ```
    kubectl -n galoy-dev-addons port-forward  --address 0.0.0.0 svc/admin-panel 3001:3000
    ```
2. open http://localhost:3001

## Lightning Terminal access

Lightning Terminal web UI is available for LND nodes in the dev environment.

```bash
# Access Lightning Terminal for lnd1
kubectl -n galoy-dev-bitcoin port-forward svc/lnd1-lightning-terminal 8443:8443

# Open in browser (accept self-signed certificate warning)
open https://localhost:8443

# Login with development password: devpassword123
```

**Note:** The port-forward is automatically configured in Tiltfile, so you can access it directly at https://localhost:8443 when running `tilt up`.

## Grafana access
-
  ```
  env=galoy-dev

  the user is: `admin` (https://github.com/bitnami/charts/blob/main/bitnami/grafana/values.yaml#L76)

  # get the password
  k -n ${env}-monitoring get secrets monitoring-grafana -o jsonpath='{.data.admin-password}' | base64 -d; echo

  # forward the port from the pod
  k -n ${env}-monitoring port-forward svc/monitoring-grafana 3000:80

  # access Grafana on http://localhost:3000
  ```

## Port access from a remote computer
-
  ```
  # port forward with ssh
  localport=3000      # chosen port on the desktop with the web browser
  user=k3d            # remote user (example)
  host=192.168.3.170  # the IP address of the server (example)

  ssh -L $localport:127.0.0.1:3000 $user@$host

  # access the service on http://localhost:$localport
  ```

## Smoketests
### run the automated run-galoy-smoketest used in github actions
  ```
  make run-galoy-smoketest
  ```
### to test manually:

* forward the galoy-oathkeeper-proxy
  ```
  kubectl -n galoy-dev-galoy port-forward  svc/galoy-oathkeeper-proxy 4455:4455
  ```
* run the smoketest from another window (examples from the [galoy-smoketest.sh](/ci/tasks/galoy-smoketest.sh)):
  ```
  host=localhost
  port=4455
  phone='+59981730222'
  code='111111'

  # apollo-playground-ui
  curl -LksSf "${host}:${port}/graphql" \
    -H 'Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -H 'Accept: application/json' -H 'Connection: keep-alive' -H 'DNT: 1' \
    -H 'Origin: ${host}:${port}' --data-binary \
    '{"query":"query btcPrice {\n btcPrice {\n base\n currencyUnit\n formattedAmount\n offset\n }\n }","variables":{}}'

  # galoy-backend auth
  curl -LksSf "${host}:${port}/graphql" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -H 'Accept: application/json' --data-binary \
    "{\"query\":\"mutation login(\$input: UserLoginInput\!) { userLogin(input: \$input) { authToken } }\",\"variables\":{\"input\":{\"phone\":\"${phone}\",\"code\":\"${code}\"}}}"
  # admin-backend
  curl -LksSf  "${host}:${port}/admin/graphql" \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -H 'Accept: application/json' --data-binary \
    "{\"query\":\"mutation login(\$input: UserLoginInput\!) { userLogin(input: \$input) { authToken } }\",\"variables\":{\"input\":{\"phone\":\"${phone}\",\"code\":\"${code}\"}}}" \
  ```
